# Role Action Mapping

<table><thead><tr><th width="192">Roles</th><th width="291">Description</th><th width="389">Action</th><th>Comments</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>System administrator</td><td></td><td><ol><li>Define campaign type (project type).</li><li>Create campaign(s) (projects).</li><li>Create products.</li><li>Create product variants.</li><li>Assign product variants as campaign resources.</li><li>Create roles and map to actions.</li><li>Create users: Map to role and boundary (boundary mapping to be confirmed).</li><li>Define boundaries.</li><li>Map users to campaigns.</li><li>Define MDMS configurations (including project type).</li><li>Create localisation.</li></ol></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Registrar</td><td>Frontline worker (FLW) who is responsible for registering households. The registrar also shares awareness messages (SBCC).</td><td><ol><li>Create new household.</li><li>Create new individual.</li><li>Map individuals to households.</li><li>Assign household/individual as a beneficiary of a campaign.</li><li>Read, update and delete for all actions mentioned above.</li><li>View offline reports.</li></ol></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Distributor</td><td>Frontline worker (FLW) who is responsible for registering households and updating service delivery details against registered households. The registrar also shares awareness messages (SBCC).</td><td><ol><li>Create new household.</li><li>Create new individual.</li><li>Map individuals to households.</li><li>Assign household/individual as a beneficiary of a campaign.</li><li>Update service delivery against the beneficiary (household/ individual).</li><li>Read, update and delete for all actions mentioned above.</li><li>View offline reports.</li></ol></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Field supervisor</td><td>Responsible to monitoring the field teams. This user is also responsible for training the FLW teams, monitoring the field team's progress during campaign execution, managing stocks at the community warehouse, and performing random inspections during campaign execution.</td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>National supervisor</td><td>Supervisors are responsible for overseeing the campaign operations, conduct random and scheduled inspections, fill supervision checklists, support field supervisors to tackle operational issues under their jurisdictions, and train users on campaign SOP and digital tools.</td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Provincial supervisor</td><td>Supervisors are responsible for overseeing the campaign operations, conduct random and scheduled inspections, fill supervision checklists, support field supervisors to tackle operational issues under their jurisdictions, and train users on campaign SOP and digital tools.</td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>District supervisor</td><td>Supervisors are responsible for overseeing the campaign operations, conduct random and scheduled inspections, fill supervision checklists, support field supervisors to tackle operational issues under their jurisdictions, and train users on campaign SOP and digital tools.</td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Warehouse manager</td><td></td><td><ol><li>Record stock transactions: Create receipt, issues, returns.</li><li>View stock reconciliation (system calculated).</li><li>Submit reconciliation form.</li><li>View offline reports for inventory reconciliation.</li></ol></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Program manager</td><td>These users consume the data collected and shared by the FLW, and take decisions based on the data present. These users must have access to the dashboard with the default view of the data belonging to their jurisdiction and a level below. For example, a provincial manager must be able to view the aggregated data from the entire province as well as the data for individual districts by logging into the system.</td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Employee</td><td>Already present in HRMS.</td><td></td><td></td></tr></tbody></table>
